# 1.    Process for developing our guidelines

This section describes the steps SecurEth will follow to create or modify a guideline and resulting tools, if appropriate.
## 1.1  Team
Administrator: Rex Hygate

Guideline Writing Team Bryant Eisenbach, Roman Pavlovskyi
# 2.0 Top Level Guideline Approval

Before work begins on a new guideline or a modification on an existing guideline, a concept document is developed and placed in the guideline repository of the SecurEth GitHub.  The document will stay on the GitHub for a minimum of 30 days, receiving comments.  Recent contributors to other guidelines will receive a e-mail or direct message indicating the creation of the Concept Document.  The goal of this section is to determine what guidelines our group should work on.  It determines what we will do next. 
## 2.1 Concept Document Format

A Concept Document is a very brief (up to three pages) overview of the guideline content or changes.and looks for approval of the top-level concept before work starts.   An example of a concept document is in Appendix A.  It includes the following sections;
* a fixed format header
* Overview
* Purpose
* Inputs and Outputs 
* Plan 


The status of a Concept Document moves from 
* Open for Comment (this phase is described here)
* Building the Team
* Writing the Guideline
* Open for Public Comment
* Published  

Each state is described below.
# 3  Building the Team
The guideline documents will be edited by a team.  Anyone who is interested in the concept presented in the Concept Document may volunteer for the team via GitHub comments. We aim to build the team with a mixture of developers from existing complex Solidity projects and members of existing security audit teams.  The SecurEth team adds aerospace experience. Additional aerospace experience developers may be called into the team from time to time.


Once we have the base of a team, the discussion will move to building the writing and meeting plan.  Before writing really starts a plan on the number of meetings, types of meetings (web, in person, etc) and the deliverables for the meetings. 


The result of this section is documented in the Plan section of the Concept Document.  It will include the Plan and the team member names.

# 4  Writing the Guideline
In this phase the actual guideline is written and edited by the team as per the plan.  At regular intervals an interim guideline is published on the github so the community can see the progress and get their comments in.  If the process is not as per plan, then the plan on the Concept doc is modified.
## 4.1.  Requirements for the tool
If the standard should have an automated tool to output its results, the requirements of this tool should be generated by the committee in parallel with the standard
### 4.1.1.      Format of the output
The output of the tool should be carefully considered.  It should fit as an input of subsequent tools and be clearly legible.
# 5  Open for Public Comments
Here the “finished” guideline is put on the github for public comment.  It will stay in this state until at least 30 days.  After this time, or before as needed, the team will meet and discuss the comments.


If there are significant changes then another round of writing, perhaps with new team members will begin and the plan in the Concept is updated.  The status may change from “Open for Public Comments” back to “Writing the Guideline”


If there are no significant comments than the guideline is published.
# 6  Published
When a development teams starts a development based on a guideline, it is vital that the guideline remain stable during the development cycle.  For this reason publishing guidelines are important.  All “published” standards on our website/github should always be open for comment by the public.  If a change is forked, then another committee may be formed to create the revision.
